# OwlMarble Magic - Level 5

<style>
  .phb h1+p:first-letter {
    all: unset;
  }
</style>

_by u/TheOwlMarble_

## Spells


### Alton's Spirit Swarm
___
- **School**: Conjuration
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 120 feet
- **Components**: V, S, M (a family heirloom)
- **Duration**: 8 hours
- **Classes**: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard
___
You conjure a swarm of silent spirits from the Shadowfell to occupy a 40 foot cube centered on a point you can see within range.  At the end of the turn on which you cast it, the spirits become invisible.  For the duration, roll a d6 as a collision die when a creature enters the cube for the first time or begins its turn there and then moves for the first time on its turn.  If the roll is a 3 or higher, a spirit collides with the creature and dissipates with a screech that deals 7d6 Thunder damage to the creature and can be heard from 300 feet away.

Each time a creature collides with a spirit, the roll required to achieve a collision increases by one.  Thus, the second collision requires a roll of at least 4.  The third at least 5. And so on.

If a creature possesses Truesight or can see into the Ethereal Plane, it may freely navigate the area without risking a collision.
___
**Higher Levels**: When this spell is cast at a spell level above 5th, the collision die increases in size.  At 6th, the collision die is a d8.  At 7th, it is a d10.  At 8th, it is a d12.  At 9th, it is a d20.


### Animate Objects
___
- **School**: Transmutation
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 120 feet
- **Components**: S
- **Duration**: Concentration, up to 1 minute
- **Classes**: Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard
___
Choose up to 8 nonmagical uncontrolled objects within range.  Medium objects count as 2.  Large objects count as 4.  Huge objects count as 8.  Each target animates and becomes a creature under your control until the spell ends or it is reduced to 0 hit points.  The animated objects take their turns immediately after yours.

As a bonus action, you can mentally command the creatures you make with this spell if they are within 500 feet of you.  The commands can be specific or general such as “guard this room.”  Once given an order, the creature will continue to follow it until its task is complete.  If a creature has no task, it will defend itself, but take no other actions.

An animated object is a construct with AC, hit points, attacks, Strength, and Dexterity determined by its size (see below).  Its Constitution is 10 and its Intelligence and Wisdom are 3, and its Charisma is 1.  Its speed is 30 feet, and if it lacks legs or other appendages it can use for locomotion, it instead has a flying (hover) speed of 30.  If the object is securely attached to a larger object (such as a chain bolted to a wall), its speed is 0.  It has 30 feet of blindsight, and is blind beyond that distance.  When an animated object drops to 0 hit points, it reverts to its original form, and any remaining damage carried over to the original object.

If an animated object attacks, it makes a slam attack against a creature or object within 5 feet of it.  The attack deals bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, as appropriate for the object.  This damage is considered magical for the purpose of overcoming resistances.
##### Animated Object Statistics
| Size       | HP | AC | Attack            | Strength | Dexterity | CR |
|:----------:|:--:|:--:|:-----------------:|:--------:|:---------:|:--:|
| Tiny       | 15 | 18 | +8 to hit, 1d6+4  | 4        | 18        | 1  |
| Small      | 25 | 17 | +6 to hit, 1d8+3  | 6        | 16        | 1  |
| Medium     | 50 | 16 | +6 to hit, 2d8+3  | 16       | 14        | 2  |
| Large      | 90 | 14 | +7 to hit, 4d8+4  | 18       | 12        | 3  |
| Huge       | 120| 12 | +8 to hit, 8d8+5  | 20       | 8         | 5  |

___
**Higher Levels**: If you cast this spell using a spell slot higher than 6th, you can animate 2 additional objects for each slot level above 5th.


















<div class='footnote'>OwlMarble Magic | 5th Level</div><div class='pageNumber auto'></div>\page

## Appendix - Rules

<div class='classTable'>

### Controlled Objects

An object is controlled if it is worn or carried.  Otherwise, it is considered uncontrolled.
</div>

<div style='margin-top:-20px'></div>
<div class='classTable'>

### Translocation Rules

A translocation effect is any effect that instantaneously (or at least instantaneously as far as combat is concerned) transports you to a different location.  Translocation effects can be divided into 3 categories: _Portals_, _Teleports_, and _Conveyances_.  A few examples are provided for each.

- **Portals**: any effect where a gateway is created that allows for rapid travel between two points.
  - Arcane Gate
  - Gate
  - Transport via Plants
- **Teleports**: any effect that instantaneously alters a target’s location, as if someone had pulled up the universe’s dev console and done JohnDoe.setLocation(x,y,altitude,plane).
  - Dimension Door
  - Teleport
  - Plane Shift
  - Word of Recall
  - Blink
- **Conveyances**: any effect that causes the target to physically travel to a location at extremely high speed such that it is nearly instant, usually involving some manner of temporary discorporation.
  - Warp Strike
  - Misty Step
  - Blessing of the Raven Queen
  - Tree Stride
  - Fiery Conveyance

</div>

```
```

<div class='classTable'>
### Illusion Rules
- Illusions are divided into _Figments_ and _Glamors_.  An individual illusion spell may have either or both.
- Figments and Glamors, unless otherwise specified, are intangible and immune to all damage and conditions.
3. Figments create a shape in the spellcaster’s design of choice that interacts with and possibly emanates harmless sensory information of one or more types, as specified by the spell.  If enough light, sound, scent, taste, or heat, sufficient to directly harm a creature, is directed at a figment, the effect penetrates the figment and only harmless levels are interacted with by the figment.
- Figments are classified as either creatures or objects for the purpose of targeting, depending on what they appear to be.  A creature that knows a figment is an illusion may always target it as if it were a spell effect.
- Glamors alter the harmless sensory effects associated with a creature, object, or spell effect.
- A creature presented with an illusion assumes the illusion is real until given specific cause to disbelieve.  Seeing the illusion appear in the first place is not cause to disbelieve unless a creature has specific prior knowledge to expect illusions, in which case it disbelieves if its passive Investigation exceeds the spell save DC.
- A creature who questions an illusion can make an Investigation check against the caster's spell save DC as an action.  If the creature succeeds, it knows the illusion for what it is.  The caster of an illusion always knows the illusion for what it is.
- Illusions of animate objects and creatures have an Armor Class equal to the spell save DC of their creator while figments of inanimate objects have an Armor Class of 2.  Creatures that “hit” an insubstantial illusion discover it as such when their attack passes through it.
- Illusions automatically succeed on all saving throws.
- A revealed Figment or Glamor does not dissipate, become faint, sound hollow, or otherwise degrade unless otherwise specified in the spell.
- If a creature has Truesight, the creature automatically knows if there is an illusion in its field of view and can perceive both the illusion and anything hidden by it.  It behaves as if it has already succeeded on the investigation check.
- A Figment or Glamor may be reinforced by shadow material from the Shadowfell and so become semi-real.  Such an illusion becomes known as a Shadow and holds up to physical inspection, taking on all properties of the emulated object or creature, but remains totally controlled by its creator.  Shadows cannot be used as spell components.  If a shadow is reduced to zero hit points, it dissipatess.
</div>
<div class='footnote'>OwlMarble Magic | 5th Level</div><div class='pageNumber auto'></div>\page


### OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a

The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved.

1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative Material" means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0 Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.

<div class='footnote'>OwlMarble Magic | OGL License</div><div class='pageNumber auto'></div>
