# Level 7

## Blood to Water

- **School**: Necromancy
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 60 feet
- **Components**: V, S
- **Duration**: Instantaneous
- **Classes**: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard

You target one creature within range and attempt to transform its blood into water.  The creature must make a Constitution saving throw or receive 9d10 Necrotic damage, half on success.  Its maximum hit points are reduced by the damage it receives by this spell until the end of its next long rest.  Additionally, if the creature fails the save, it gains one level of exhaustion.

**Higher Levels**: For each spell level above 7th this is cast at, the spell deals an additional 1d10 damage.

## Expel Anathema

- **School**: Conjuration
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 120 feet
- **Components**: V
- **Duration**: 1 minute
- **Classes**: Druid

You attempt to expel creatures that violate the natural order and return them to their home planes.  Select up to three celestials, fey, fiends, monstrosities, aberrations, elementals, constructs, or undead within range.  Each target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be banished to a harmless demiplane for 1 minute, during which time it is incapacitated and unconscious.  At the end of the duration, a creature may repeat the saving throw.  If it fails a second time, it is shunted to its place of origin (usually its birthplace) on its plane of origin.  If the creature is not native to the plane you are on when you cast this, the creature is unable to return to the plane you are on by any means short of Wish for 1 year.

A creature that succeeds either saving throw receives 4d10 force damage and reappears where it was and the spell ends for it.

## Godspeed

- **School**: Conjuration
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: Touch
- **Components**: V, S
- **Duration**: 1 hour
- **Classes**: Cleric, Warlock

You touch a willing creature and teleport them with your blessing to a holy site of your faction worth at least 1000gp that you have been to before such as a temple, shrine, or mausoleum containing the honored dead.  The creature is teleported to the target location and for one hour thereafter may add a 1d4 to all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.  If the creature ever has advantage on an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw while under this effect, roll the d4 twice and select the higher value to add to the higher d20 value.

You do not have fine control of the destination, and so may not specify a particular point in space at the target holy site.  The creature might teleport to the center of the holy site, its entrance, or some other location of significance there at the DM's discretion.

**Higher Levels**: For each spell slot higher than 7th this is cast at, you may teleport an additional creature.

## Mirage Arcane

- **School**: Illusion
- **Casting Time**: 1 Hour
- **Range**: Sight
- **Components**: V, S
- **Duration**: 10 days
- **Classes**: Bard, Druid, Wizard

As you cast this spell, magic sweeps out from a target position you can see that begins to shroud the surrounding 1 mile square in a powerful glamor.  When you finish casting this spell, the glamor becomes a shadow.  The glamor covers all senses and can even alter the landscape by making one type of terrain resemble another, but the terrain’s general shape must remain the same.  Open fields or a road could be made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem like a grassy meadow or lake of lava, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.

Similarly, you can alter the appearance of structures, or add them where none are present. The spell doesn’t disguise, conceal, or add creatures.  The shadow glamor is sufficiently real to deal damage to creatures.  For instance, if a creature fell into a shadow lava pool created by this spell, it would take the normal damage for falling into lava (18d10 fire damage for being submerged in lava, per DMG249).

The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into difficult terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede movement through the area. Any piece of the illusory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed from the spell’s area disappears immediately.

Creatures with truesight can see through the illusion to the terrain’s true form. However, all other elements of the illusion remain, so while the creature is aware of the illusion’s presence, the creature can still physically interact with the illusion.

The illusion can be dispelled from anywhere within its area.

**Higher Levels**: If you cast this spell with an 8th level spell slot, the casting time drops to 1 minute.  If you cast this spell with a 9th level spell slot, its casting time becomes 1 action.

## Mordenkainen's Sword

- **School**: Evocation
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 90 feet
- **Components**: V, S, M (a miniature platinum sword worth 250gp)
- **Duration**: 10 minutes
- **Classes**: Bard, Wizard

You create a sword-shaped plane of force that hovers within range for the duration.  When the sword appears, make a melee spell attack against a target of your choice within 5 feet of the sword.  On a hit, the target takes 3d10 force damage.  Until the spell ends, you can use your bonus action to move the sword up to 30 feet and then make another spell attack.

## Phase Shift

- **School**: Conjuration
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 1 mile
- **Components**: V, S, M (a glove woven from the silk of a phase spider)
- **Duration**: 8 hours
- **Classes**: Wizard

You shift a target cube within range, up to 5000 feet on a side, partially into the Ethereal Plane.  Creatures can pass in and out of the space as normal, but telepathic communication fails if it must pass in or out of the cube.  This also applies to the Sending spell.  The maximum words of a sending spell is reduced by 25, and which words survive is random.

## Project Image

- **School**: Illusion
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: 500 miles
- **Components**: V, S, M (a small replica of you worth at least 5gp)
- **Duration**: Concentration, up to 1 day
- **Classes**: Bard, Wizard

You create an audiovisual figment of yourself that lasts for the duration.

The copy can appear at any location within range that you have seen before, regardless of intervening obstacles. The figment looks and sounds like you but is intangible. If the figment takes any damage, it disappears, you receive 3d6 Psychic damage, and the spell ends.

You can use your action to move this figment up to twice your speed, and make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.

You can see through its eyes and hear through its ears as if you were in its space. On your turn as a bonus action, you can switch from using its senses to using your own, or back again. While you are using its senses, you are blinded and deafened in regard to your own surroundings.

For the duration, while you are using the figment's senses, you can cast illusion spells through it.

## Sacred Name

- **School**: Abjuration
- **Casting Time**: 1 Minute
- **Range**: Self (1-mile radius)
- **Components**: V, S, M
- **Duration**: 1 day
- **Classes**: Bard, Cleric, Warlock, Wizard

When you cast this spell, you utter a proper noun, which serves as the verbal component of the spell, and charge it with power.  For the spell’s duration, whenever a creature within range speaks the word aloud, you become aware of its utterance if you are not incapacitated, as well as the speaker’s precise current location.  As a reaction, you can choose to deal 2d6 damage to the speaker.  If you are good-aligned, the damage is radiant.  If you are neutral, it is psychic.  If you are evil, it is necrotic.  The creature then loses the ability to speak until the beginning of its next turn.

This effect also triggers if a creature within range casts a spell that targets you by name, such as Psychic Lance, Wish, Dream, or Scrying.  If you use your reaction to deal damage to the speaker, the triggering spell is lost and any resources are expended.

**Higher Levels**: If you cast this spell with an 8th level slot, the radius increases to 500 miles.  If you cast the spell with a 9th level slot, it affects the entire plane of existence you are on.  If you cast this spell with a 10th level slot, it affects the entire multiverse.

## Simulacrum

- **School**: Illusion
- **Casting Time**: 12 Hours
- **Range**: Touch
- **Components**: V, S, M (snow or ice in quantities sufficient to make a life-sized copy of the duplicated creature; some hair, fingernail clippings, or other piece of that creature’s body placed inside the snow or ice; and powdered ruby worth 1,500 gp, sprinkled over the duplicate and consumed by the spell)
- **Duration**: Permanent
- **Classes**: Wizard

You shape the ice or snow and then apply a shadow glamor to it, transforming it into a duplicate of one beast or humanoid that is within range for the entire casting time of the spell.

The duplicate is a creature, and it can take actions and otherwise be affected as a normal creature. It appears to be the same as the original, but it has half the creature’s hit point maximum and is formed without any equipment. Otherwise, the illusion uses all the statistics of the creature it duplicates.

The simulacrum is friendly to you and creatures you designate. It obeys your spoken commands, moving and acting in accordance with your wishes and acting on your turn in combat. The simulacrum lacks the ability to learn or become more powerful, so it never increases its level or other abilities, nor can it regain expended spell slots.

If the simulacrum is damaged, you can repair it in an alchemical laboratory, using rare herbs and minerals worth 100 gp per hit point it regains. The simulacrum lasts until it drops to 0 hit points, at which point it reverts to snow and melts instantly.

If you cast this spell again, any currently active duplicates you created with this spell are instantly destroyed.

## Sunder

- **School**: Evocation
- **Casting Time**: 1 Action
- **Range**: Self (300-foot cone)
- **Components**: V, S, M (a shard of glass)
- **Duration**: Instantaneous
- **Classes**: Sorcerer, Wizard

You launch a devastating percussive wave from your palm.  For a 300-foot cone in front of you, all creatures must make a Constitution saving throw or receive 8d6 Thunder damage or half as much on a successful save.  This damage ignores resistance.  Constructs have disadvantage on the saving throw.  Structures in the area automatically take maximized damage on each 10' cube exposed to the caster's line of sight.

**Higher Levels**: For each spell level above 7th this is cast at, the damage increases by 2d6.
